Common Illnesses
Allergies
Colds and Flu
Conjunctivitis ("pink eye“)
Diarrhea
Headaches
Mononucleosis
Stomach Aches
Allergies
Allergies are an immune response triggered by allergens, an ordinarily harmful substance.

Causes
People with allergies have especially sensitive immune systems that react when they contact allergens.

Common allergens include:

foods (nuts, eggs, milk, soy, shellfish, wheat)
pollen
mold
latex
pet dander
Symptoms
Because there are so many possible causes, the symptoms of allergies vary widely. Airborne allergens, like pollen and pet dander, are likely to cause:

Eye irritation
Runny nose
Stuffy nose
Puffy, watery eyes
Sneezing
Inflamed, itchy nose and throat
Allergens that are consumed, like foods or certain medications, can cause:

Hives or skin rashes
Gastrointestinal distress (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, excessing gas, indigestion)
Tingling or swelling of the lips, face, or tongue
Itchiness
Difficulty breathing or wheezing
Fainting/ or lightheadedness
In cases of a more extreme response, called anaphylaxis, symptoms are severe and life-threatening.

Treatment
The easiest and most effective way to treat allergies is to get rid of or avoid the cause. Where unavoidable, some lifestyle changes can reduce your allergy symptoms. For example, if you are allergic to dust mites, make an effort to keep your room clean and free of dust by frequent vacuuming, dusting, and washing of bedding.

For pollen allergies, avoid being outside when pollen counts are high and keep the windows to your room shut.

Because it is very difficult to avoid certain allergens, medication may be necessary to lessen symptoms caused by allergens, other than food and drugs.

Antihistamines: help relieve or prevent the sneezing, itchy eyes and throat, and postnasal drip that the allergen may cause. They are sold in many forms (i.e., pills, nasal sprays, liquids, etc.).
Decongestants: help reduce congestion in your nasal membranes by narrowing the blood vessels that supply those membranes. They can be purchased in several forms (liquid, pill or nasal spray) and may be used with an antihistamine or alone to treat nasal swelling related to allergies.  Limit use of nasal sprays to fewer than two to three days in a row because prolonged use can cause the nasal membrane swells, resulting in severe nasal obstruction. 
Anti-inflammatory agents (e.g., corticosteroid): help reduce swelling of the airways, nasal congestion and sneezing. Typically taken as a nasal spray. Some people report that corticosteroids irritate nasal passages.
Allergy shots: recommended for serious allergy sufferers, this series of shots are administered by a healthcare provider and contain small amounts of the allergens that cause you discomfort. The goal of allergy shots is to enable your immune system to build better defenses against allergens.
Some allergies go away with age, but others are lifelong.

Prevention
Avoid the outdoors between 5-10 a.m. and save outside activities for late afternoon or after a heavy rain, when pollen levels are lower.
Keep windows in your living spaces closed to lower exposure to pollen.
To keep cool, use air conditioners and avoid using window and attic fans.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or other means to communicate to others about your allergy in case of a reaction.
Discuss a prescription for epinephrine (e.g., EpiPen) with your healthcare provider, if you have risk of serious allergic reaction.
Review product labels carefully before buying or consuming any item
Know what you are eating or drinking.
Cold and Flu
Colds and influenza (flu) are the most common illnesses among college students. 

Causes
Both of these illnesses are upper respiratory infections, meaning they involve your nose, throat, and lungs. Viruses cause both colds and flu by increasing inflammation of the membranes in the nose and throat.

Most transmission of these viruses occurs via hand-to-hand contact.

Symptoms
Flu symptoms come on suddenly and affect the body all over. Flu symptoms are usually more serious than a cold and include:

fever (100° F),
headache,
more intense pain and fatigue, and
more severe, often dry cough.
When you get the flu, you are also more prone to bronchitis, sinus, and ear infections. 

Cold symptoms mostly affect above the neck and include:

a runny or stuffy nose (nasal congestion),
sneezing,
sore throat, and
cough. 
You may also experience a mild headache, body aches or a low grade fever. Typically, a cold lasts 2-14 days.

Treatment
If any problem is causing you discomfort, you should seek medical care.

Seek medical attention promptly if you have:

a fever of 102° F or greater (which may indicate a more serious infection),
a persisting cough, especially with a significant fever (which could indicate pneumonia),
a persistent sore throat (especially if runny nose does not develop - which could indicate a strep infection), or
any cold lasting more than 10 days.
Because colds and flu are caused by viruses, they cannot be cured by antibiotics. There are tips to help you feel better and strengthen your immune system to fight illness:

Rest more than usual and avoid exercise until symptoms are gone.
Drink lots of clear fluids (e.g., water, tea).
Stay away from cigarette smoke.
Do not take antibiotics unless specifically prescribed for you to cure the illness from which you currently suffer.
Avoid drinking alcohol because it weakens your immune system and may interact with medications.
Avoid caffeine, which can increase congestion and dehydration.
Eat a well-balanced diet, including fruits, vegetables, and grains.
More Specific Remedies for Comfort
Runny Nose/Congestion:
Decongestants (e.g. pseudoephedrine) can relieve a runny nose and congestion, but these medications can inhibit sleep and suppress appetite.
Salt water nasal sprays (e.g. NaSal or Ocean) can ease nasal congestion and thin mucus. However, excessive use of medicated nose sprays, like Afrin, can cause dependence and may make congestion worse.
Humidifiers and hot showers can help to moisten nasal passages and clear mucus.
Cough:
Dextromethorphan is an effective cough suppressant, but because a cough is a protective reflex, it is not usually a bad thing. Take dextromethorphan if your cough is interfering with sleep or work.
Water vapor from humidifiers and showers can help loosen the mucus causing a cough, as can chicken soup.
Sore Throat:
Phenol in lozenges and sprays is an effective pain reliever for sore throats.
Gargling with warm saltwater (1 tsp. salt in one cup of warm water) every four hours may help ease pain by reducing swollen tonsils.
Drinking tea with lemon (with or without honey).
Fever/Pain:
Acetaminophen, Aspirin, Ibuprofen. If symptoms are severe, you may alternate acetaminophen and ibuprofen every two hours for pain or fever relief.
Prevention
UHS offers flu shots to Princeton students at a reduced cost every fall. Even though getting a flu shot will not completely eliminate your chances of developing the flu, it will certainly reduce the risk. Each year, a new vaccine made from inactivated (killed) influenza viruses is formulated. Since it may take the immune system time to respond to the vaccination, the inactivated vaccine should be given 6 to 8 weeks before flu season begins in order to prevent infection or reduce the severity of the illness.

The flu is probably only contagious during the first three days of illness, and the incubation period is 24-72 hours, meaning you might not show symptoms for three days after contracting the virus. It is rare to catch a cold virus through the air – most transmission occurs via hand-to-hand contact. To prevent colds, flu, and other illnesses, follow these tips:

Wash your hands often (which is good advice for keeping healthy in any situation). Keep them away from your nose, eyes, and mouth. Use an instant hand sanitizer when you can’t wash your hands.
Get regular exercise and eat well.
Follow good sleep habits.
Get a flu shot each fall (offered to all students at a lower cost by UHS each fall) 
Conjunctivitis (“pink eye“)
Causes
Conjunctivitis, an inflammation of the transparent membrane (conjunctiva) that lines your eyelids and part of your eyeballs, has several possible causes. It could be a bacterial or viral infection, an allergic reaction to pollen or animal dander, or a result of chemical irritants (smoke, chlorine, lens solution, etc.).

Symptoms
These symptoms may last a few hours to several weeks: redness, itching, tearing, burning sensation, pus-like discharge and/or crusting of the eyelids. Because conjunctivitis causes inflammation of the small blood vessels in the conjunctiva to become more prominent, the whites of your eyes will appear pink or red. When you wake you are likely to feel that your eyelids are pasted shut, and your vision may not be as clear as usual.

Treatment
Because pink eye is highly contagious, early diagnosis is important. Bacterial cases can be cured with antibiotic eye drops, viral conjunctivitis clears up on its own, and allergic reactions can be treated with various types of eye drops. Here are some general tips:

Wash your hands frequently to prevent spreading an existing infection to your other eye, and to other people.
Don’t rub your eyes.
Use a cool wet washcloth to soak off any crusting.
Use a warm or cool compress to reduce discomfort.
Discard eye make-up because it may cause future infection.
Wash any clothing that may be contaminated, including towels and pillowcases. Try to use clean towels and pillowcases everyday.
Avoid wearing contact lenses and discard current lenses.
If eye drops are prescribed, place drop in pocket formed by pulling down lower lid. Make sure you don’t touch the bottle to the eye in order to prevent contamination.
If the infection does not improve in 2 or 3 days, make an appointment for re-evaluation.
Prevention
Pink eye is extremely contagious, so if you know someone who is infected, make sure you do not expose yourself to contact with the person’s eye fluid. The infection can easily be passed via keyboards, doorknobs, make-up, pens, gym equipment, and a vast number of other items. To protect yourself, wash your hands frequently, avoid touching your eyes, and wash anything that may be contaminated.

Diarrhea
Causes
Bacterial infection, caused by contaminated food or water
Viral infection
Parasites, which can enter the body through food or water
Food intolerance, such as the inability to digest lactose, the sugar in milk
Overuse of alcohol or laxatives
Medication, such as some antibiotics or antacids containing magnesium
Menstrual cramps
Stress or a panic attack
Symptoms
watery, loose stools
frequent bowel movements
cramping or pain in the abdomen, nausea, bloating
possibly fever or bloody stools, depending on the cause
Treatment
Usually diarrhea will clear up on its own in a day or two, but a prolonged case may cause complications. The most important concern is dehydration. If you have symptoms of dehydration, a fever above 102° F, bloody stools (black and tarry), severe abdomen or rectum pain, or diarrhea lasting more than 3 days you should consult a physician. Here’s some advice for taking care of diarrhea yourself:

Avoid foods that are milk-based, greasy, high-fiber, or very sweet because these are likely to aggravate diarrhea.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Do not eat solid food if you have signs of dehydration (thirst, light-headed, dark urine). Instead, drink about 2 cups of clear fluids per hour (if vomiting isn’t present), such as sports drinks and broth. Water alone is not enough because your body needs sodium and sugar to replace what it’s losing.
Avoid high sugar drinks, like apple juice, grape juice, and soda, which can pull water into the intestine and make the diarrhea persist.
Don’t drink clear liquids exclusively for more than 24 hours.
Begin eating normal meals within 12 hours, but stick to food that is bland and won’t irritate your intestine. Some doctors suggest the “BRAT“ diet which includes foods that are low in fiber, fat, and sugar. BRAT stands for Bananas, Rice, Applesauce, and Toast.
Use over-the-counter lactobacillus acidophilus capsules or tablets. These bacteria help maintain a healthy intestine, and are found in yogurt with live active cultures.
Decrease level of exercise until symptoms are gone.
Over-the-counter drugs, such as Imodium A-D, should only be used if absolutely necessary because it is important to let diarrhea flush out the bacteria or parasite that’s causing the infection.
Headaches
Everyone suffers the occasional mild headache, but if you experience debilitating pain and/or abnormally frequent headaches, you probably want to find relief. There are countless causes of headaches, which differ for each person, so you’ll have to do some experimenting to figure out the cause of your pain. Fortunately, the vast majority of headaches are primary headaches, not the result of underlying medical conditions. The three most common types are cluster, tension-type, and migraine.

A cluster headache affects a specific point of the head, often the eye, and is characterized by sharp, piercing pain. Migraine and tension-type headaches are far more common. “Tension“ headaches are now called “tension-type“ headaches because pain is not only caused by stress, but also poor posture, depression, and even sexual activity. In fact, recent studies have shown a connection between low serotonin levels and so-called “tension“ headaches.

Causes
The cause of a headache is often elusive. Although it may seem that your head is pounding for no reason, there is always an explanation for pain. To find out the cause of your headaches, keep a log. Write down the date and time each headache starts and stops, the location of the pain, the nature and severity of the pain, and any factors that seem to trigger the headaches (food, stress, menstrual cycle, medicine, etc.).

Some of the many causes of headaches:

Emotional and physical stress
Fatigue
Irregular sleep habits (sleeping too much or too little)
Skipping meals
Caffeine use or withdrawal
Hormonal factors, such as menstruation
Monosodium glutamate (MSG)
Foods with nitrates, such as hot dogs
Alcohol
Some medicines
Certain foods, including red wine, chocolate, aged cheeses, pickled foods, nuts, and aspartame
Changes in weather, altitude, or time zone
Symptoms
Just as the causes vary for each headache sufferer, so do the symptoms and severity of pain. Health professionals can often diagnose the type of headache you suffer based on your symptoms.

Symptoms of a migraine:

pulsing or throbbing quality
begins with intense pain on one side of the head, which eventually spreads
felt on one or both sides of the head
lasts several hours
severe enough to interfere with routine activities
may be accompanied by nausea or vomiting
sometimes preceded by visual changes, such as an aura of zigzag lines or flashes of light
light and noise can make the headache worse, while sleep tends to relieve symptoms
Symptoms of a tension-type headache:

constant, dull ache
felt on both sides of the head
a feeling of squeezing or pressure
does not usually interfere with routine activities
lasts from 30 minutes to a few days
Treatment
Ice pack held over the eyes or forehead
Heating pad set on low or hot shower to relax tense neck and shoulder muscles
Sleep, or at least resting in a dark room
Taking breaks from stressful situations
Regular exercise to increase endorphin levels and relax muscles. Even if you already have a headache, exercising may relieve the pain. However, intense exercise may bring on a headache.
Occasional use of over-the-counter medicines such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin can relieve both migraine and tension headaches. *
Prescription drugs for severe headaches
* Overuse of pain medicine can actually result in more frequent headaches. Most pain-relieving medicines used to treat headaches can cause “analgesic rebound headaches“ if used too often.

Prevention
Be aware of early symptoms so you can try to stop the headache as soon as it begins.
Don’t smoke, and if you do, quit.
Don’t skip meals.
Cut down on caffeine and alcohol (reduce caffeine intake gradually because withdrawal may cause headaches).
Stop all over-the-counter medicines and herbal remedies.
Maintain a regular eating and sleeping schedule.
Exercise regularly.
Incorporate relaxation activities into your daily routine, such as meditation, yoga, stretching exercises, and massage
Improve your posture, possibly by adjusting your workstation.
When should I see a health care provider?
Although most headaches do not signal underlying medical problems, if your headaches change in nature or location, or become more severe, frequent, and/or intense, you should consult your health care provider.

Seek immediate medical attention if your headaches…

Become increasingly worse, and are most painful early in the morning while you are still in bed.
Occur three or more times a week.
Begin to be accompanied by nausea or vomiting.
Occur after a head injury, especially if they get worse.
Seem to be triggered by physical exertion, such as exercise, sexual activity, or coughing.
Occur along with green or brown nasal drainage and sinus pain over the cheeks or around the eyes.
Are accompanied by dizziness, difficulty speaking, vision loss, or numbness in an arm, leg, or parts of the face.
Develop suddenly, accompanied by a fever over 101°F and are not relieved by acetaminophen or aspirin, especially if there is pain or stiffness in the neck.
Mononucleosis
Cause
Mononucleosis is an illness caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), which is spread through saliva.

Symptoms
The most well known symptom of “mono“ is extreme fatigue, forcing the infected person to nap frequently. If you experience such extreme fatigue accompanied by other symptoms, such as swollen lymph glands and spleen, sore throat, fever, loss of appetite, and muscle aches, you may want to get tested for mono. The basis for testing whether you have mono is the presence of antibodies produced by white blood cells. Many people infected with mono don’t get sick, or have such mild symptoms they don’t know they have it. EBV is usually in the body 30-50 days before an infected person develops symptoms. Surprisingly, 80-95% of adults in the US have been infected by the time they’re 40, but only about 20% know they’ve had mono.

Treatment
Mono is a virus, so antibiotics won’t help. Make sure you get plenty of rest, eat healthy foods, avoid alcohol (because your liver may be inflamed and drinking weakens immune responses), drink plenty of fluids, take aspirin or an aspirin substitute to reduce pain and fever, gargle salt water to relieve sore throat, and avoid strenuous activity. Because your spleen may be swollen, it is important not to engage in contact sports which could rupture your spleen. Returning to normal activity too quickly increases your chances of relapse.

Prevention
Avoiding someone with mono can be hard because infected individuals often do not show symptoms. Because the incubation period is so long, a person can be contagious 1-2 months before showing any symptoms, and some people don’t show symptoms at all. Even after signs of mono have disappeared, a person may still be producing the virus. A strong immune system, maintained by healthy diet, exercise, and adequate sleep, can help you from getting ill. Fortunately, mono is not very contagious, and is usually only passed through intimate contact, such as kissing. [top]

Stomach Aches
Intestinal Gas
It’s natural to have gas in your digestive tract, and to pass gas regularly. In fact, everyone passes gas at least 12 times a day, which is a combination of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and methane. The unpleasant odor of flatus is cause by gases (e.g. hydrogen sulfide) produced by the bacteria in the large intestine. Even though it’s natural to have gas in your digestive tract, excessive gas can cause intense, temporary pain. People who suffer discomfort from gas in the intestine report abdominal bloating, flatulence, and jabbing pains or cramps in the abdomen. Intestinal gas can mimic the pain associated with real illnesses, like gallbladder disease, heart disease, and appendicitis, but be aware that it can also signal other illnesses, such as stomach flu or food poisoning.

The best treatment for gas focuses on the cause. Although there are several over-the-counter medications that advertise gas relief, they do not work for everyone and may have side effects. Medications that have been shown to effectively reduce gas use simethicone, a substance that helps gas be expelled through belching or passing flatus (it does not make gas dissolve or disappear). Activated charcoal preparations may also be helpful. While these medications are good for short-term immediate relief, the best step for long-term comfort is to find out what causes you gas.

There are two general causes of gas: swallowed air and the breakdown of undigested foods by harmless bacteria in the large intestine. Everyone swallows air when they eat and drink, but these activities are likely to increase the amount ingested:

Eating or drinking rapidly
Drinking through a straw
Chewing gum or eating hard candy
Smoking
Food triggers vary from person to person, but the types of food that seem to cause the most problems are those that are high in fiber or lactose. Foods that may cause gas include:

Beans
Peas
Lentils
Cabbage
Broccoli
Brussels sprouts
Milk products (if you lack adequate amounts of the enzyme lactase)
Onions
Wheat
Carbonated beverages
Sorbitol (artificial sweetener) and fructose (found in corn syrup)
To prevent gas:

Avoid foods that trigger gas.
Avoid swallowing excess air by not chewing gum or eating hard candy.
Take digestive enzyme supplements, such as Beano (for high-fiber foods) and lactase supplements (for milk products).
Eat only small amounts of dairy products with food, if you suspect lactose intolerance.
Eat several small meals throughout the day instead of two or three larger ones.
Eat slowly, in a relaxed setting, and chew your food thoroughly.
Take a stroll after meals. Don’t sit in a slumped position or lie down after eating.
If increasing the fiber in your diet, do so gradually
Exercise to facilitate the passage of gas through the digestive tract.
Nausea and Vomiting
Possible causes for nausea and/or vomiting:

Viruses in the intestines (viral gastroenteritis, see below)
Some medications, such as certain antibiotics and birth control pills
Eating too much or eating spoiled food
Drinking too much (e.g. alcohol)
Motion sickness
Morning sickness in pregnant females
Medical conditions that cause vomiting:

Labrynthitis – inflammation of an area in the ear that usually results from an upper respiratory infection
Concussion from a head injury
Stomach ulcers
Hepatitis (inflammation of the liver)
Meningitis (inflammation of the membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord)
Gastroenteritis, a.k.a. “stomach flu,“ is an inflammation of the intestines that can be caused by viruses, parasites, bacteria, food allergies, overuse of alcohol, and psychological reactions. Viruses that cause gastroenteritis can enter the intestine from contaminated food or water, or through contact with an infected person. Many different viruses can infect the intestine, but the signs and symptoms of gastroenteritis are generally the same: abdominal cramps, watery diarrhea and nausea and/or vomiting. Symptoms of gastroenteritis can develop anywhere from a few hours to a few days after contamination. Most cases resolve within a couple days without specific treatment, but some may last for up to 10 days. In addition to avoiding food and water that might be contaminated, you should wash your hands thoroughly and frequently (especially because viruses often enter the body through the fecal-oral route, when people do not wash their hands thoroughly after bowel movements). Because stomach flu is contagious, avoid sharing eating utensils, drinks, towels, and other objects that may transmit the virus from one person to another.

The biggest health risk posed by gastroenteritis is dehydration. If you exhibit signs of dehydration, including extreme thirst, dry mouth, dark urine, dizziness, and severe weakness, get medical help immediately. If you cannot replace lost fluids through sipping clear liquids, you may need intravenous fluids and hospitalization.

Self-care tips for vomiting:

Wait 30-60 minutes after vomiting before drinking anything to let your stomach settle.
Don’t eat solid foods. Don’t drink milk.
Drink clear liquids, taking small sips. Stir any carbonated beverages to get all the bubbles out before sipping them. Suck on ice chips if nothing else will stay down.
Gradually return to regular diet, but wait about 8 hours from the last time you vomited. Start with foods like dry toast, crackers, rice, and other foods that are easy to digest.
Avoid substances that irritate the stomach, like alcohol, aspirin, and fried foods.
Avoid diuretics, like caffeine and alcohol, that contribute to fluid loss.
For nausea without vomiting:

Drink clear liquids. Eat small amounts of dry foods, such as soda crackers, if tolerated.
Avoid things that irritate the stomach, such as alcohol, aspirin, spicy, and fried foods.
For motion sickness, use an over-the-counter anti-nausea medicine, such as Dramamine.
When should I see a health care provider?
If you can’t keep liquids down for more than 24 hours
If you have blood in vomit or stools
If you’re vomiting for more than 1 day
If you have signs of dehydration (dry mouth, dark urine, dizziness, etc.)
If you have a fever of more than 100° F
If vomiting is accompanied by a sore neck and severe headache

Medical abstracts describe the current conditions of a patient. Doctors routinely scan dozens or hundreds of abstracts each day as they do their rounds in a hospital and must quickly pick up on the salient information pointing to the patient’s malady. You are trying to design assistive technology that can identify, with high precision, the class of problems described in the abstract. In the given dataset, abstracts from 5 different conditions have been included: digestive system diseases, cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, nervous system diseases, and general pathological conditions.

The training dataset consists of 14438 records and the test dataset consists of 14442 records. The train data has classes whereas, the test data classes are needed to be predicted.

The data are provided as text in train.dat and test.dat, which should be processed appropriately.


4	Catheterization laboratory events and hospital outcome with direct angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction To assess the safety of direct infarct angioplasty without antecedent thrombolytic therapy, catheterization laboratory and hospital events were assessed in consecutively treated patients with infarctions involving the left anterior descending (n = 100 patients), right (n = 100), and circumflex (n = 50) coronary arteries. The groups of patients were similar for age (left anterior descending coronary artery, 59 years; right coronary artery, 58 years; circumflex coronary artery, 62 years), patients with multivessel disease (left anterior descending coronary artery, 55%; right coronary artery, 55%; circumflex coronary artery, 64%), and patients with initial grade 0/1 antegrade flow (left anterior descending coronary artery, 79%; right coronary artery, 84%; circumflex coronary artery, 90%). Cardiogenic shock was present in eight patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, four with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery. Major catheterization laboratory events (cardioversion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, dopamine or intra-aortic balloon pump support for hypotension, and urgent surgery) occurred in 10 patients with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, eight with infarction of the right coronary artery, and four with infarction of the circumflex coronary artery (16 of 16 shock and six of 234 nonshock patients, p less than 0.001). There was one in-laboratory death (shock patient with infarction of the left anterior descending coronary artery). 
5	Renal abscess in children. Three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features. An additional 23 pediatric cases, reported over the past ten years, were reviewed for clinical features and therapy. Fever, loin pain, and leukocytosis were common presenting features, but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture. The presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis, peritonitis, or a Wilms tumor. An organism was identified in 17 cases--Escherichia coli in 9 children and Staphylococcus aureus in 8 children. The majority of E. coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of S. aureus infections occurred in boys. Reflux was documented in 5 patients, and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection. Antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children (38%), but 16 children (62%) required a surgical procedure. 
2	Hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy. Asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied. Polyps were found in 185 subjects. The endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps' histology based on endoscopic appearance. No polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy. All subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy. Of them, 99 subjects (54%) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma, 69 (37%) had only hyperplastic polyps, and 17 (9%) had other findings. The endoscopists' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61% of the lesions. Of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps, 29% had additional adenomas at more proximal sites. Proximal adenomas were found in 28% of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps. Patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps. 
5	Subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula after insertion of a hemodialysis catheter. Insertion of hemodialysis catheters for temporary use is now preferentially performed by percutaneous infraclavicular subclavian vein catheterization. This method involves passage of a stiff dilator and a peel-away sheath over a guide wire, and is usually carried out without fluoroscopy. For the most part this has proved to be a valuable and safe approach. However, a small incidence of major complications occurs, which needs to be emphasized. Sixteen cases of arteriovenous fistulas between the subclavian artery or its branches and the subclavian vein have been reported so far in the literature. To date only one case of subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula has been reported. We report the second case with this complication and suggest possible preventive measures. 
4	Effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia: a study using microdialysis. Previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous GABA suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats. In this study, microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of GABA within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure. In anesthetized rats, local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5, 10 and 40 mM nipecotic acid, an inhibitor of GABA uptake, caused concentration-related increases in GABA and taurine in the extracellular space, but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure. Similar perfusion with 37.5, 75 and 150 mM KCl caused concentration-related increases in GABA as well as aspartate, glutamate, taurine, glycine and alanine. Only modest, variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium. In conscious rats, unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mM nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol (88 pmol/250 nl) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of GABA in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus. Neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate, although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular GABA. These results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous GABA in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress. 
1	Infection during chronic epidural catheterization: diagnosis and treatment. A potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection. The early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted. Three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved; exit site and superficial catheter track infection, and epidural space infection. The authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients. All 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal. None of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression. Catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections. It was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate. The use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established. 
5	Mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap after resection of carcinoma of the esophagus involving the proximal part of the trachea. An operative procedure of mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is presented. In this procedure, the terminal portion of the trachea penetrates through the center of a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and the tracheal wall is completely wrapped with the muscular portion of the flap. Between 1981 and 1988, eight patients with carcinoma in the cervicothoracic segment of the esophagus underwent mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy and extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea through sternal manubrectomy, because of invasion into the trachea. In five of eight patients, a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap was used to construct a tracheal stoma. A skin flap only, or both a skin flap and a muscle flap, was used in the other three. In four of eight patients, tracheal necrosis occurred, and rupture of the brachiocephalic artery occurred in one patient when the tracheal stoma had been constructed using both a skin flap and a muscle flap. However, neither skin breakdown nor bleeding from the major vessels occurred when using the myocutaneous flap. Therefore, it is concluded that the construction of the tracheal stoma using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is recommended for mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy with extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea. 
5	Tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion of the extremity. Report of a case and review of the literature. Tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion is an idiopathic fibroinflammatory process of the head and neck region. Although benign histopathologically, it is invasive, destructive, and locally recurrent, leading to uncertainty regarding its proper management; as the disease is rare, determining optimal treatment is difficult, given the anecdotal nature of reports. We report the first case of a tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion occurring outside the head and neck region. Our patient was treated with corticosteroids and had a favorable response, supporting this approach as initial treatment. Immunohistochemical studies performed on a pretreatment specimen were consistent with a secondary inflammatory component because no monoclonal nor aberrant phenotypes were detected. The tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion appears to be indistinguishable from the other known idiopathic fibroinflammatory processes; patients presenting with any one of these should be evaluated for the others. 
3	Multiple representations contribute to body knowledge processing. Evidence from a case of autotopagnosia. Body schema disturbances were studied in a 62-yr-old woman with Alzheimer's disease. She was severely impaired in verbal and nonverbal tasks requiring her to localize body parts (on her own body, the examiner's body or a doll's body) even though she correctly named the same parts when pointed at by the examiner. Pointing responses were misdirected mainly to parts contiguous with the target area and, to a lesser extent, to functionally equivalent body parts. We also found that the patient was able to define body part names functionally but not spatially. In another series of tasks, and in contrast to the above results, performances were normal when small objects, attached to the patient's body, served as pointing targets. Furthermore, on subsequent testing she pointed correctly at the remembered position of these objects. The fact that the same point in 'body space' is localized correctly when it corresponds to an external object and erroneously when it corresponds to a body part contradicts the idea of the body schema as a unitary function. Learning the position of objects on the body surface requires access to some form of body-reference system on which this information can be mapped. We argue that such a system can be available in autotopagnosia and is independent from the visuospatial representations of the body structure that are postulated to be damaged or inaccessible in this syndrome. An integrated account of the present results and of those reported by other authors suggests that multiple levels of representation (e.g., sensorimotor, visuospatial, semantic) are involved in the organization of body knowledge. 
5	Increasing asthma prevalence in a rural New Zealand adolescent population: 1975-89. A survey of asthma symptoms and spirometry in 435 adolescent schoolchildren was undertaken in 1989 in a rural, largely Maori population. The survey questionnaires were identical to those used in a 1975 survey at the same school. The prevalence of reported asthma or wheeze significantly increased from 26.2% to 34.0%. This increase occurred in groups reporting asthma, and also those reporting wheeze unassociated with colds, but without a previous diagnosis of asthma. There was a tendency for a rise in reported wheeze in Europeans (24.3% to 27.4%) and a significant rise in Maoris (27.1% to 36.2%). The reclassification of other respiratory problems did not account for the increase. Data from this study provides evidence that there has been a rise in the prevalence of asthma in this New Zealand population over a time period of 14 years. 
5	Usefulness of the automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator in improving survival of patients with severely depressed left ventricular function associated with coronary artery disease. Clinical outcome was analyzed among a group of 39 consecutive patients with coronary artery disease, left ventricular (LV) ejection fractions less than 30% and arrhythmias that required an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) in an attempt to better define the role of the device in patients with severely depressed LV function. Twenty-nine (74%) were survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and 10 (26%) had ventricular tachycardia that was refractory to electrophysiologically guided antiarrhythmic therapy. The study group had the following demographic characteristics: 90% were men, mean age was 64 years (range 41 to 79) and mean LV ejection fraction was 21 +/- 4%. Concomitant pharmacotherapy included antiarrhythmic drugs 31 (79%), vasodilators in 22 (56%) and digoxin in 20 (51%). There was no statistical difference in baseline characteristics between survivors and nonsurvivors. Patients were followed for a mean of 24 months (range 2 to 72) from implantation. The difference between actuarial survival--77% at 1 year and 72% at 2 years--and projected survival without the AICD (patients who survive without appropriate device discharge)--30% at 1 year and 21% at 2 years--was significant (p less than 0.01 and less than 0.05 at 1 and 2 years, respectively). This study suggests that the AICD improves survival in patients with coronary artery disease despite severely depressed LV function. 
5	Stress-related mucosal damage: review of drug therapy. The increased awareness of stress-related mucosal damage (SRMD) that accompanied the widespread use of fiberoptic endoscopy and the increased incidence of SRMD that accompanied the advances in caring for critically ill patients resulted in the recognition that the majority of patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) setting wil develop mucosal damage. Complications of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in these patients may contribute significantly to their morbidity and mortality, and the consequences of this bleeding may be more severe than the underlying predisposing conditions. Because of the importance of gastric acid in the pathogenesis of SRMD, therapy has focused on reduction of the intraluminal acid concentration. Acid neutralization, while effective, is laborious and associated with side effects. H2-receptor antagonists have been used successfully in the prophylaxis and treatment of SRMD and offer the potential for an effective parenteral as well as oral agent. They obviate the need for frequent antacid administration and eliminate some of the troubles and side effects that accompany an intensive antacid regimen. Of the available H2-receptor antagonists, cimetidine has been the most thoroughly evaluated. It is equivalent to antacids in the prevention of overt bleeding and offers the advantage of dosing flexibility, ease of administration, and a remarkable safety profile. Cimetidine has also been shown to be effective when administered by intermittent bolus infusions given every 8, 6, or 4 h or by primed continuous infusion, which has proven to be the most successful method of controlling intragastric pH. 
2	A biphasic pattern of anti-pre-S responses in acute hepatitis B virus infection. The clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-S1 and pre-S2 regions of hepatitis B virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis B and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed. Anti-pre-S antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-S1 and pre-S2 sequence. In acute, self-limited infection, anti-pre-S antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern. The early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when HBsAg and often HBeAg were present, but hepatitis B virus DNA was no longer detectable in serum. Anti-pre-S levels then fell, but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase, after development of anti-HBe, but before anti-HBs. Anti-pre-S responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered (88.2%) and in both patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease. Although the early antibodies to pre-S1 and pre-S2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection, these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis B virus DNA in patients in whom chronic hepatitis B infection developed. Thus the anti-pre-S response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution. 
5	A controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir in neonatal herpes simplex virus infection. Infectious Diseases Collaborative Antiviral Study Group. BACKGROUND. Despite the use of vidarabine, herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection in neonates continues to be a disease of high morbidity and mortality. We undertook a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir for the treatment of neonatal HSV infection. METHODS. Babies less than one month of age with virologically confirmed HSV infection were randomly and blindly assigned to receive either intravenous vidarabine (30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day; n = 95) or acyclovir (30 mg per kilogram per day; n = 107) for 10 days. Actuarial rates of mortality and morbidity among the survivors after one year were compared overall and according to the extent of the disease at entry into the study (infection confined to the skin, eyes, or mouth; encephalitis; or disseminated disease). RESULTS. After adjustment for differences between groups in the extent of disease, there was no difference between vidarabine and acyclovir in either morbidity (P = 0.83) or mortality (P = 0.27). None of the 85 babies with disease confined to the skin, eyes, or mouth died. Of the 31 babies in this group who were treated with vidarabine and followed for a year, 88 percent (22 of 25) were judged to be developing normally after one year, as compared with 98 percent (45 of 46) of the 54 treated with acyclovir (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -4 to 24). For the 71 babies with encephalitis, mortality was 14 percent with vidarabine (5 of 36) and with acyclovir (5 of 35); of the survivors, 43 percent (13 of 30) and 29 percent (8 of 28), respectively, were developing normally after one year (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -11 to 39). For the 46 babies with disseminated disease, mortality was 50 percent (14 of 28) with vidarabine and 61 percent (11 of 18) with acyclovir (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -20 to 40); of the survivors, 58 percent (7 of 12) and 60 percent (3 of 5), respectively, were judged to be developing normally after one year (95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -40 to 50). Both medications were without serious toxic effects. CONCLUSIONS. In this multicenter, randomized, blinded study there were no differences in outcome between vidarabine and acyclovir in the treatment of neonatal HSV infection. The study lacked statistical power to determine whether there were sizable differences within the subgroups of those with localized HSV, encephalitis, or disseminated disease. 
5	Pentostatin induces durable remissions in hairy cell leukemia. Fifty patients with hairy cell leukemia were treated with pentostatin (2'-deoxycoformycin; dCF) for a median of 3 months; 32 (64%) patients achieved complete remission (CR), and 10 (20%) patients achieved partial remission (PR), for an overall response rate of 84%. After reaching maximal response, no maintenance therapy was administered. The median duration of follow-up is now 39 months, and only four of 32 patients in CR and two of 10 patients in PR have relapsed. dCF therapy produces durable long-term, disease-free survival in patients with hairy cell leukemia. 
5	Cytologic features of poorly differentiated 'insular' carcinoma of the thyroid, as revealed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. The authors report on the cytologic features of six cases of poorly differentiated "insular" carcinoma (IC) of the thyroid, a recently described variety of thyroid tumor intermediate between well-differentiated and anaplastic neoplasms. It is characterized by trabecular and/or alveolar growth patterns, merging with follicular areas, and by the absence of pleomorphism in the tumor cells. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) materials (both smears and cell-block preparations) from six patients were reviewed after the diagnosis of IC was confirmed on the surgical specimen. The following cytologic features were consistently found: high cellularity and necrotic background; low grade of atypia; trabeculae and/or clusters, possibly associated with microfollicles, of cells with poorly defined cytoplasm; and cytoplasmic vacuoles containing thyroglobulin. Nuclear inclusions and grooving of the nuclear surface were additional features. Preoperative diagnosis suggestive of IC might be of value for planning surgical treatment and subsequent therapy. 
1	Cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. We report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma, using a retrospective review of 115 patients' records obtained from tumor registry files. Five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus. Twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis. One patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma. The last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and, in the course of a standard workup, he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. These findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma. 
5	Steal-prone coronary anatomy and myocardial ischemia associated with four primary anesthetic agents in humans. To examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia, we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations. Steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8% of patients who had received enflurane; 40.0%, halothane; 32.6%, isoflurane; and 31.7%, sufentanil. Detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mV ST segment displacement, ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 (30.4%) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics (27.5%-32.9%). Patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy. In patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy, the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0% with enflurane, 34.4% with halothane, 32.1% with isoflurane, and 38.2% with sufentanil. Systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 (45.6%) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil. Hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane. Ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients (0.9%). In none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension. 
1	Ewing's sarcoma. Radiotherapy versus surgery for local control. Significant strides in the treatment of Ewing's sarcoma, the second most common bone tumor of childhood, have resulted in cure for approximately 50% of patients. Successful therapy requires systemic chemotherapy for the eradication of microscopic or overt metastatic disease and surgery or irradiation therapy for control of the primary lesion. The article debates the controversy over the extent to which surgical resection should play a role in the local management of this disease. 
3	Tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin. Case report. The authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction. Two similar cases were found upon review of the literature. The embryology of this lesion is discussed. 
1	Immunohistochemical detection of P-glycoprotein in endometrial adenocarcinoma. P-glycoprotein (Pgp) has emerged as the central mediator in classic multidrug resistance in model systems in vitro. High levels of Pgp also have been detected in many normal human tissues and tumors; and its role in clinical drug resistance is currently under investigation. Recently significant levels of Pgp were localized to gravid and secretory endometrium; and it was demonstrated that the combination of estrogen and progesterone is sufficient to induce high levels of both Pgp mRNA and Pgp in uterine secretory epithelium. These findings suggest that increased Pgp expression also may be present in hormone-responsive malignancies such as endometrial adenocarcinoma. To determine whether Pgp is expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma, 36 endometrial adenocarcinomas (grade I [n = 17]; grade II [n = 6]; grade III [n = 13]) were investigated retrospectively by the avidin-biotin-complex immunohistochemical procedure using three murine monoclonal antibodies (MAb) MAb C219, MAb C494, and MAb JSB-1, which recognize spatially distinct cytoplasmic epitopes of Pgp. Seventy-two percent of the tumors showed positive immunostaining with at least one MAb; 67% showed immunostaining with MAb C219, 50% with MAb C494, and 62% with MAb JSB-1. Forty-six percent of tumors were immunoreactive to two and 29% to all three antibodies. Membranous and Golgi/paranuclear type staining patterns were observed. Overall the intensity of immunostaining varied from one sample to another for a given tumor type, and considerable heterogeneity of expression was commonly seen within a given tumor. Strong to moderate immunoreactivity was seen in diffusely infiltrating, adenosquamous, and serous papillary carcinomas. In general, immunoreactivity to MAb C494 was weaker than MAb C219 or MAb JSB-1. Adenomatous and non-neoplastic endometrium adjacent to the tumors displayed strong membranous immunostaining with MAb JSB-1. Endometrial capillaries showed weak-to-moderate immunostaining to all three antibodies. It is concluded that Pgp is commonly expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma and may be a significant factor responsible for their drug-resistant nature subject to modulation by progesterone. 
3	Acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children. STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that quantitation of either C-reactive protein (CRP) or the total peripheral WBC count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children. DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection, signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure, levels of CRP in serum, and total peripheral WBC counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses. SETTING: Emergency department and acute care "walk-in" clinic of an urban, university-affiliated general hospital. PARTICIPANTS: 160 previously well, acutely febrile infants and children (median age, 6 months). RESULTS: The prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6%. Sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17. Sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81. Of the acute phase reactants, sensitivity of a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL was 0.80, while that of a total peripheral WBC count of more than 15,000/mm3 was 0.40. The presence of signs and/or a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). The absence of signs and a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.47). Of 125 children without meningeal signs, the combination of symptoms and a CRP level of more than 1.0 mg/dL correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis (sensitivity, 1.00). The absence of these symptoms and/or a CRP level of 1.0 mg/dL or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis (specificity, 0.66). CONCLUSION: Quantitation of CRP but not the total peripheral WBC count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis. Measurement of CRP in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child. 
1	Follicular thyroid cancer treated at the Mayo Clinic, 1946 through 1970: initial manifestations, pathologic findings, therapy, and outcome We retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the Mayo Clinic between 1946 and 1970. The diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens. The 57 female and 43 male patients (mean age, 53 years) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years (mean, 17.4 years). All patients were treated surgically, and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three. Only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant. At the conclusion of the study, 52 patients had died, thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19. On the basis of univariate survival analysis, age more than 50 years, tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm, higher tumor grade, presence of marked vascular invasion, adjacent tissue invasion, and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality. Multivariate analysis (by Cox proportional hazards model), however, identified only age greater than 50 years, marked vascular invasion, and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality. Patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk. These patients had 5- and 20-year survival rates of 47% and 8%, respectively; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99% at 5 years and 86% at 20 years. The identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer. 
5	Hypertension as a risk factor for epilepsy after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery. A prospective, consecutive series of 307 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ranging from Grades 1 to V according to the classification of Hunt and Hess on admission were evaluated to determine the incidence of epilepsy 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and surgery. Sixty-three patients had died and one patient was lost to follow-up. Twenty-nine patients developed epileptic seizures after the SAH and surgery. The mean time from the SAH to epileptic seizure varied from 0 days (day of the SAH) to 2 years (mean, 6.7 months). The seizures were classified as focal in 9 patients (31%) and as generalized in 20 patients (69%). All patients received anticonvulsant medication after more than one seizure. The risk factors for development of posthemorrhagic/postoperative epilepsy were, in order of importance: a history of hypertension; an infarct on late computed tomographic scan; and the duration of coma after the ictus. Of the 85 patients with histories of hypertension, 17 (20.0%) developed epilepsy. Only 12 (5.4%) of the 222 nonhypertensive patients developed epileptic seizures. The difference between the groups was significant (P = 0.0001). Computed tomographic scans were undertaken in 237 patients 1 to 3 years (mean, 1.4 years) after the SAH and surgery. Postoperative epilepsy was significantly associated with infarcts visualized on computed tomographic scan (P = 0.0005). 
3	Mortality in acute stroke with atrial fibrillation. The Italian Acute Stroke Study Group. We compared 211 consecutive patients who had acute ischemic hemispheric stroke and atrial fibrillation with 837 consecutive patients who had stroke without atrial fibrillation. The atrial fibrillation group included a higher frequency of women, older subjects, and those with a severe neurologic deficit, abnormal computed tomogram, and elevated heart rate. The 1-month case-fatality rate in the atrial fibrillation group was 27% while that in the group without atrial fibrillation was 14%. The 6-month case-fatality rates in the two groups were 40% and 20%, respectively. The risk of death attributable to atrial fibrillation, adjusted for the effect of other prognostic factors, was significant at 1 month (relative risk = 1.55) and at 6 months (relative risk = 1.74). The causes of death were equally distributed in the two groups during both the acute and subacute phases. We conclude that atrial fibrillation is a negative prognostic factor in patients hospitalized for acute stroke. Nevertheless, cerebral embolism alone does not completely explain the increase in mortality for stroke patients with atrial fibrillation. Other associated pathogenetic mechanisms must also be taken into account. 
5	Renal replacement treatment for diabetic patients in Newcastle upon Tyne and the Northern region, 1964-88. OBJECTIVES--To review the experience of renal replacement treatment in diabetic patients treated in Newcastle upon Tyne and the Northern region from 1964 to 1988, and to compare the morbidity and mortality of diabetic patients treated with dialysis or transplantation with those of matched controls of non-diabetic patients. DESIGN--Retrospective study of clinical case notes. SETTING--Renal units of the Northern region, particularly that in Newcastle upon Tyne. PATIENTS--All 65 diabetic patients treated by renal replacement treatment in Newcastle upon Tyne from 1964 to 1987; 42 diabetic patients were matched with 42 non-diabetic patients according to age, sex, year of starting treatment, and type of treatment (dialysis or transplantation). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Sex, age, renal biopsy findings, blood pressure, history of diabetic treatment, and plasma creatinine concentration at the start of renal replacement treatment. History of renal replacement treatments, suitability for transplantation, history of transplantation, cumulative survival, and cause of death during follow up. Survival of technique, cumulative survival of the first peritoneal catheter and history of peritonitis in patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis; source of graft, histocompatibility antigens, duration of associated stay in hospital, and graft survival in patients receiving renal or pancreatic transplant. RESULTS--1259 Patients with chronic renal failure were accepted for renal replacement treatment in Newcastle upon Tyne, of whom 65 (5%) had diabetes. The first was accepted in 1974, and between 1974 and 1980 another 15 were treated (mean age 42 years; 4% of new patients). From 1981 to 1987, 49 diabetic patients (mean age 44; 9% of new patients) were treated. Fifty patients (77%) had insulin dependent diabetes and the remaining 15 (23%) non-insulin dependent diabetes. On average, the patients were aged 25 (range 5-57) when diabetes was first diagnosed and 44 (range 24-70) at the start of renal replacement treatment. The mean age at the start of treatment was 40 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes and 58 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes. Transplantation was performed in 33 of the diabetic patients, whose mean age was lower than that of those who did not receive a transplant (41 v 48 respectively, p less than 0.05). Comparison between the 42 diabetic patients and matched controls showed that the overall survival at five years was 46% and 77% respectively. The three year survival of the diabetic patients who did not receive a transplant was poor (41% v 79% respectively). Of patients transplanted, survival at five years was 73% in the diabetic patients and 90% in the controls. However, there was no significant difference in the five year graft survival (64% v 46% respectively). CONCLUSIONS--Diabetes adversely affects morbidity and mortality in patients having renal replacement treatment, but renal transplantation seems to be the best option for treating diabetic patients with end stage renal failure. 
5	Acute urinary retention secondary to Herpes simplex meningitis. We report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with Herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions. Since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis, lumbosacral disk herniation, rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication, a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes. As part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis. Culture of Herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted. We recommend conservative management only, typically with intermittent catheterization, since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days. 
5	Indications for computed tomography in children with blunt abdominal trauma. This investigation was undertaken to identify clinical variables, alone or in combination, that could be used to assign children to high- and low-risk categories for intra-abdominal injury following blunt trauma. Six hundred consecutive children who were examined with computed tomography (CT) following blunt trauma were enrolled. Complete data sets were available on 375 children. Stepwise logistic regression was used to identify predictor variables for the presence of abdominal injury. There were 174 children with abdominal injury detected by CT. Of these, 95 were classified as having significant injury. Indicators associated with significantly higher risk of abdominal injury included the following: more than three clinical indications given (odds likelihood ratio [OLR] = 4.60, 95% confidence interval [95% Cl] = 2.29, 9.21, p less than 0.001); gross hematuria (OLR = 5.80, 95% Cl = 2.51, 13.4, p less than 0.001); lap belt injury (OLR = 12.2, 95% Cl = 2.22, 66.8, p less than 0.01); assault or abuse as the mechanism of injury (OLR = 5.08, 95% Cl = 1.07, 24.2, p less than 0.05); abdominal tenderness (OLR = 2.73, 95% Cl = 1.296, 5.82, p less than 0.01); and Trauma Score less than or equal to 12 (OLR = 2.27, 95% Cl = 1.006, 5.13, p less than 0.01). No child with asymptomatic hematuria (n = 56), regardless of grade or neurologic impairment in the absence of abdominal findings (n = 15), had an abnormal CT examination. These data are useful as an adjunct to clinical judgment in triage when the availability of CT equipment is limited or there are competing extra-abdominal injuries. 
3	Lexical organization of nouns and verbs in the brain. The analysis of neuropsychological disorders of lexical processing has provided important clues about the general organization of the lexical system and the internal structure of the processing components. Reports of patients with selective dysfunction of specific semantic categories such as abstract versus concrete words, living things versus inanimate objects, animals, fruits and vegetables, proper names and so forth, support the hypothesis that the neural organization of the semantic processing component is organized in these categories. There are reports of selective dysfunction of the grammatical categories noun and verb, suggesting that a dimension of lexical organization is the grammatical class of words. But the results reported in these studies have not provided unambiguous evidence concerning two fundamental questions about the nature and the locus of this organization within the lexical system. Is the noun-verb distinction represented in the semantic or in the phonological and orthographic lexicons? Is grammatical-class knowledge represented independently of lexical forms or is it represented separately and redundantly within each modality-specific lexicon? Here we report the performance of two brain-damaged subjects with modality-specific deficits restricted principally (H.W.) or virtually only (S.J.D) to verbs in oral and written production, respectively. The contrasting performance suggests that grammatical-class distinctions are redundantly represented in the phonological and orthographic output lexical components. 
5	Vitamin B6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome--a review [published erratum appears in Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1991 Mar;98(3):329-30] A search of the literature yielded 12 controlled trials on vitamin B6 in the treatment of the premenstrual syndrome. These are discussed with emphasis on methodological aspects. A major drawback of the trials is the limited number of patients included. The existing evidence of positive effects of vitamin B6 is weak, and some well-designed trials with positive results would be needed to change this view. 
3	Ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities. A total of 111 amniotic fluid samples, clear or blood stained, with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined. Samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly, 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14. All 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. Three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14. These results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly, open spina bifida, encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase. The procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory. 
5	Colonic motor activity in acute colitis in conscious dogs. The changes in motor activity of the colon during acute colitis were investigated in six conscious dogs. The motor activity was recorded with seven strain-gauge transducers. Colitis was induced in the entire colon by luminal perfusion of acetic acid. The dogs exhibited urgency and diarrhea with mucus and blood during colitis. The mucosa was diffusely erythematous and friable and there were scattered ulcerations over the mucosal surface. The motor activity of the colon changed in several ways during colitis: (a) the total duration per hour and the mean duration of contractile states decreased significantly; (b) the cycle length of colonic migrating motor complexes was significantly prolonged, and the nonmigrating motor complexes were almost completely absent; and (d) the incidence of giant migrating contractions increased significantly. About half of the giant migrating contractions were followed by defecation. The remaining expelled mucus or gas. Sometimes, a migrating motor complex in the colon was also followed by defecation; this was never observed in the normal state. The motor activity of the colon was still decreased and the cycle length prolonged 21 days after induction of colitis. However, the dogs were asymptomatic at this time and the mucosa looked normal at colonoscopy. The incidence of giant migrating contractions was also normal at this time. It was concluded that the dog is a good model for the study of colitis because of the similarity of symptoms with human ulcerative colitis. The phasic contractions of the colon decreases during colitis but the incidence of giant migrating contractions is increased. The diarrhea in colitis may primarily be due to the large number of giant migrating contractions in the middle and the distal colon. 
1	Ki67 index and S-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas. Comparison and correlations with prognostic factors. In a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas, proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining (Ki67 index) with the use of the Ki67 monoclonal antibody, which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells, and by flow cytometry-derived S-phase fraction (SPF). Measurable Ki67 and SPF indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases, respectively, and in 96 cases by both methods. In aneuploid tumors, a significant but low (P less than 0.05, r = 0.3) relationship was observed between Ki67 index and SPF. When compared with clinical, pathologic, and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index. Additionally, correlations were observed between Ki67 index and node involvement (P less than 0.02) and between SPF and estrogen receptors (P = 0.002). These results show that (1) proliferative indices are obtained in 96% of surgical samples with Ki67 versus 67% with SPF and that (2) Ki67 index and SPF may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis. 
5	Effects of menstrual phase and amenorrhea on exercise performance in runners. There are few well controlled studies in terms of subject selection, menstrual classification, and exercise protocol that have examined both maximal and submaximal exercise responses during different phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and compared these runners to amenorrheic runners. Thus, the purpose of this study was to measure selected physiological and metabolic responses to maximal and submaximal exercise during two phases of the menstrual cycle in eumenorrheic runners and amenorrheic runners. Eight eumenorrheic runners (29.0 +/- 4.2 yr) and eight amenorrheic runners (24.5 +/- 5.7 yr) matched for physical, gynecological, and training characteristics were studied. The eumenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal (40 min at 80% VO2max) treadmill run during both the early follicular (days 2-4) and midluteal (6-8 d from LH surge) phases. The amenorrheic runners performed one maximal and one submaximal (40 min at 80% VO2max) treadmill run. Cycle phases were documented by urinary luteinizing hormone and progesterone assays and by plasma estradiol and progesterone assays. No differences were observed in oxygen uptake, minute ventilation, heart rate, respiratory exchange ratio, rating of perceived exertion, time to fatigue (maximal), and plasma lactate (following the maximal and submaximal exercise tests) between the follicular and luteal phases in the eumenorrheic runners and the amenorrheic runners. We conclude that neither menstrual phase (follicular vs luteal) nor menstrual status (eumenorrheic vs amenorrheic) alters or limits exercise performance in female athletes. 
4	Radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung. Congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities. Embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies. Clinical, radiographic, and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed. 
3	Clarifying confusion: the confusion assessment method. A new method for detection of delirium OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate a new standardized confusion assessment method (CAM) that enables nonpsychiatric clinicians to detect delirium quickly in high-risk settings. DESIGN: Prospective validation study. SETTING: Conducted in general medicine wards and in an outpatient geriatric assessment center at Yale University (site 1) and in general medicine wards at the University of Chicago (site 2). PATIENTS: The study included 56 subjects, ranging in age from 65 to 98 years. At site 1, 10 patients with and 20 without delirium participated; at site 2, 16 patients with and 10 without delirium participated. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: An expert panel developed the CAM through a consensus building process. The CAM instrument, which can be completed in less than 5 minutes, consists of nine operationalized criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III-R). An a priori hypothesis was established for the diagnostic value of four criteria: acute onset and fluctuating course, inattention, disorganized thinking, and altered level of consciousness. The CAM algorithm for diagnosis of delirium required the presence of both the first and the second criteria and of either the third or the fourth criterion. At both sites, the diagnoses made by the CAM were concurrently validated against the diagnoses made by psychiatrists. At sites 1 and 2 values for sensitivity were 100% and 94%, respectively; values for specificity were 95% and 90%; values for positive predictive accuracy were 91% and 94%; and values for negative predictive accuracy were 100% and 90%. The CAM algorithm had the highest predictive accuracy for all possible combinations of the nine features of delirium. The CAM was shown to have convergent agreement with four other mental status tests, including the Mini-Mental State Examination. The interobserver reliability of the CAM was high (kappa = 0.81 - 1.0). CONCLUSIONS: The CAM is sensitive, specific, reliable, and easy to use for identification of delirium. 
1	The mutation for medullary thyroid carcinoma with parathyroid tumors (MTC with PTs) is closely linked to the centromeric region of chromosome 10. Two new morphs (F and G) detected by the centromeric alpha satellite probe p alpha 10RP8 and D10Z1 in HinfI digests are linked to the PstI polymorphisms of D10Z1, confirming their chromosome 10 location. The F and G morphs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other but were in weak linkage disequilibrium with the A and B morphs defined in PstI digests. Data for haplotypes formed by using the A and F morphs improved the lod score for linkage between the disease locus for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) and D10Z1 (Z = 14.06 at theta = 0) in the six large families studied by Wu et al. Furthermore, the locus that codes for a distinct phenotype, medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) with parathyroid tumors (PTs) and no pheochromocytomas (PHEOs) (referred to as MTC with PTs), in one of the families was closely linked to two markers, D10Z1 and RBP3, with lodscores of 2.86 and 3.54, respectively, at theta = 0. A possible allelic association was noted between disease phenotypes and centromeric haplotypes. The phenotype MTC and PHEOs with and without PTs was associated with the same relatively common centromeric haplotype (A + B-F-G-) in the four families in which all four morphs could be determined, while the phenotype MTC with PTs was associated with the rare centromeric haplotype (A-B-F-G+) in one family. 
4	The Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry: overview of acute hemodynamic results and procedural complications. Between December 1, 1986 and October 30, 1987, balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed in 492 patients with aortic stenosis (mean age 79 +/- 8.4 years) enrolled in the Mansfield Scientific Aortic Valvuloplasty Registry. All procedures were performed from a femoral approach (92%), brachial approach (6%) or transseptal approach (2%) and utilized either a single balloon technique (72%) or a double balloon technique (28%). Valvuloplasty resulted in a significant improvement in aortic valve area (0.50 +/- 0.18 cm2 to 0.82 +/- 0.30 cm2), mean aortic valve gradient (60 +/- 23 mm Hg to 30 +/- 13 mm Hg) and cardiac output (3.86 +/- 1.26 to 4.05 +/- 1.31 liters/min). Serial aortography demonstrated a moderate or severe increase in aortic insufficiency in only 2.1% of patients. Statistical analysis of the procedural factors affecting acute valvuloplasty results demonstrated significant correlations of single versus double balloon technique, total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with respect to the absolute change in mean aortic valve gradient occurring during the valvuloplasty procedure. In addition, there was a significant correlation between the maximal time of valvuloplasty balloon inflation with aortic valve area measured after valvuloplasty, and there were significant correlations of the total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with the aortic valve mean gradient measured after valvuloplasty. The overall complication rate for the procedure was 20.5%, including vascular injury in 11%, embolic phenomenon in 2.2%, ventricular perforation resulting in tamponade in 1.8%, massive aortic insufficiency in 1%, nonfatal arrhythmia in 0.8% and myocardial infarction in 0.2%. 
3	Meralgia paresthetica after coronary bypass surgery. Meralgia paresthetica is a neurologic disorder characterized by localized paresthesia and numbness on the anterolateral aspect of the thigh and involving the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve. It involves no motor deficits. Meralgia paresthetica, which may result from a variety of causes, has been observed as a rare complication in heart operations. Its cause when associated with such operations is uncertain but may be prolonged relaxed positioning on the operating table and recovery room stretcher. Another possible cause of meralgia paresthetica after heart operations is the "frog-leg" position of the legs during vein harvesting. Patients with this condition should be advised of its untreatable, but benign and self-limiting, nature. 
1	Modified anterior compartment resection. In the majority of patients with soft tissue sarcomas of the anterior compartment of the thigh, it is possible to preserve a small portion of the quadriceps with intact nerve supply without compromising on the radicality of the procedure or the local control rate. The distal one-third of the vastus medialis can usually be spared with a long, slender branch providing its innervation. Dissection of the femoral nerve below the inguinal ligament and its branch(es) to an uninvolved area of the quadricepts the farthest from the location of the tumor is essential. This modified anterior compartment resection improves dramatically the function of the extremity. 
1	Pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group: the prostate--an unusual location. Pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare, with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature. We present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery. 
1	Recombinative events of the T cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral T cell lymphomas. Recombinative events of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral T cell lymphoma (PTCL) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples. There were 22 cases of alpha beta, 5 cases of gamma delta, and 10 cases of silent TCR expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta TCR. 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus. The 22 cases of alpha beta PTCL displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions; a monoallelic V delta 1 J delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases. The 5 cases of gamma delta PTCL displayed biallelic rearrangements: the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to V delta 1J delta 1 joining in 3 cases and VJ delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of DNA hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the TCR delta-1, delta TCS-1, and anti-V delta 2 monoclonal antibodies. In the VJ delta 1 joining, the rearranged V segments were located between V delta 1 and V delta 2. Interestingly, in the third group of 10 cases of silent PTCL, 5 cases were found to have a TCR gene configuration identical to that in the TCR alpha beta PTCL, as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion. These 5 cases were CD3 positive. The 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1. Four of these cases were CD3 negative, which was consistent with an immature genotype the TCR commitent of which could not be ascertained. Finally, TCR gamma delta PTCL consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas TCR alpha beta and silent PTCL had a similar presentation. 
5	Neonatal repair of tetralogy of Fallot with and without pulmonary atresia. Our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery. Up to this time, we have repaired tetralogy of Fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms, either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells, have been present. This review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988. Twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of Fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of Fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair. Mean age at repair was 8 +/- 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 +/- 0.7 kg. Unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients. Twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract. There were five deaths in the hospital, three of which were due to avoidable technical problems. All deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery (Nakata) index less than 150 mm2/m2. One premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries. Actuarial survival at 5 years was 74%. There was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death, with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair. Actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76% at 5 years. Postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70% systemic in 13 cases. All patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair (mean, 5 +/- 4 years). This experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that, if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms, elective repair of tetralogy of Fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life. 
4	Cardiac rhythm disturbances early after orthotopic heart transplantation: prevalence and clinical importance of the observed abnormalities. To precisely define the incidence, type and consequences of cardiac arrhythmias early after heart transplantation, 25 cardiac transplant recipients were monitored continuously for 728 days from the day of surgery to discharge or death. A subset of 15 patients had sinus node function studies with overdrive suppression performed weekly at the time of endomyocardial biopsy. Results revealed sinus bradycardia in 10 patients (40%) and junctional bradycardia in 6 (24%). Supraventricular tachycardia in the form of atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter occurred in 11 patients (44%). Ventricular tachycardia occurred in 15 patients (60%) and was nonsustained in all. Cardiac pacing for 1,403 h was used in nine patients with a pulse rate less than 50 beats/min; seven recovered and permanent pacing was instituted in two. In the subgroup that had sinus node function studies, seven patients were identified with clinical bradyarrhythmia; each had abnormal sinus node recovery time (greater than 1,400 ms) and abnormal corrected sinus node recovery time (greater than 525 ms) in at least one study. These seven patients also had a significantly prolonged ischemic time (236 +/- 26 versus 159 +/- 68 min, p less than 0.01). In conclusion, cardiac arrhythmias, particularly ventricular tachycardia and bradyarrhythmia, occur more commonly early after orthotopic heart transplantation than has previously been reported. Sinus node dysfunction due to prolonged organ ischemic time, antiarrhythmic drug use or surgical trauma, alone or in combination, may contribute to these arrhythmias. 
2	Quantitation of intrinsic drug-metabolizing capacity in human liver biopsy specimens: support for the intact-hepatocyte theory. Hepatic drug metabolism is decreased in patients with severe liver disease, but it is unclear to what extent this is due to altered hepatic blood flow or reduced intrinsic metabolic capacity. In this study we quantitated in needle-biopsy specimens the intrinsic capacity of liver tissue from 67 patients with mild liver disease (n = 36), chronic active hepatitis (n = 16) and cirrhosis (n = 15) to metabolize two model compounds in vitro. Hydroxylation of the low-extraction drug bufuralol resulted in the formation of 251 +/- 25 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/gm wet wt/hr in mildly diseased liver tissue and was significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced in liver tissue exhibiting chronic active hepatitis (166 +/- 23 nmol/gm wet wt/hr) and cirrhosis (124 +/- 21 nmol/gm wet wt/hr). The formation rates of monoethylglycinexylidide, the main metabolite of the high-extraction drug lidocaine, varied widely and were not significantly different among the three groups. To relate the drug-metabolizing capacity to the hepatocyte content of liver tissue, morphometrical study was performed in the biopsy pieces originally submitted. The metabolic activity of each biopsy piece was then related to the fractional volume of hepatocytes it was calculated to contain. In mildly diseased liver tissue 355 +/- 35 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 12.4 +/- 1.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr- and in cirrhotic liver tissue 306 +/- 49 nmol 1'OH-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 15.3 +/- 3.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr--were formed, respectively, and these differences were not significant. 
5	Carotid artery resection and replacement in patients with head and neck malignant tumors. Tumor involvement of the carotid artery with head and neck cancers may be present either simultaneously with the primary lesion or more often appears at a later date following resection of the primary tumor. Management of the secondary tumor consists of its resection together with the involved carotid artery with or without carotid artery reconstruction. The Authors are convinced that the best chance for cure of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell cancers involving the carotid artery is radical extirpation with ablative surgery in the form of en block resection of the primary lesion, the secondary tumor, and the involved carotid artery followed by immediate revascularization. This bold approach was carried out in two male patients, 48 and 61 years of age, followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in one and radiation therapy alone in the other, with excellent results. Dermal grafts were placed over the entire length of the arterialized veins to protect them from radiation injury. Based on this limited experience and excellent results, we recommend this one-stage surgical ablative procedure in well selected patients. However, cooperation between the ENT and vascular surgeons, strict adherence to the principles and techniques of vascular surgery, and coverage of the arterialized vein with a dermal graft is absolutely essential. 
5	The treatment of chondrodermatitis nodularis with cartilage removal alone. Fifty-eight patients with chondrodermatitis nodularis on the antihelix in 24 ears (16 women and eight men) and the helix in 40 ears (six women and 34 men) were studied. Twelve ears responded to intralesional steroid therapy. Under local anesthetic, 46 operations were performed to remove cartilage without skin excision. On the helix, a longitudinal incision was made; on the antihelix, a flap was raised and the underlying cartilage was excised, taking care to leave no rough cartilage edges. Follow-up (mean, 16 months; range, 4.5 to 34 months) showed that 10 of 17 antihelix lesions and 24 of 29 helix lesions healed completely with excellent cosmetic results. Recurrences, requiring further treatment, occurred at cartilage-excision margins in seven ears, and further cartilage excision alone was successful in four ears. This study demonstrates that only cartilage needs to be removed in the surgical treatment of chondrodermatitis nodularis. 
3	The influence of the calcium antagonist nimodipine and induced hypertension on the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries, the blood-brain barrier, cerebral edema, and cerebral infarction in cats with one-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Thirty anesthetized cats were randomly assigned to one of three groups of 10 cats each: nimodipine treatment, nimodipine treatment combined with induced hypertension, or a control group. The behavior of the cerebral pial arteries was measured by means of microscopic observation through a cranial window. The middle cerebral artery of each cat was clipped for 1 hour via the transorbital approach. Five hours after circulation was reestablished in the middle cerebral artery, Evans blue dye was injected intravenously: 30 minutes later, the animal was killed. Administration of nimodipine or saline in the treated or control group was started 5 minutes before the middle cerebral artery was clipped and maintained until the end of the experiment. Induced hypertension was produced by administration of dopamine during the occlusion. Damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) was judged by extravasation of Evans blue dye. Cerebral edema and infarction were evaluated from histological findings. They were most prominent in the control group: the extent of hemisphere affected was as follows (mean +/- standard error): extravasation, 40.5 +/- 8.8%; edema, 43.2 +/- 5.7%; infarction, 35.5 +/- 9.6%. On the other hand, the extravasation of Evans blue dye and cerebral edema were significantly more extensive in the group treated with nimodipine and induced hypertension (extravasation, 28.2 +/- 9.6% of the hemisphere; edema, 30.3 +/- 7.1%) than in the group treated with nimodipine alone (extravasation, 18.5 +/- 8.7% of the hemisphere; edema, 19.4 +/- 6.3%), but the infarction size was similar in both groups (16.6 +/- 4.9% of the hemisphere in the former; 17.0 +/- 6.2 in the latter). 
1	Heffalumps, jagulars, and cheshire cats. A commentary on cytokeratins and soft tissue sarcomas. Historically, antibodies to cytokeratin intermediate filaments have been models of target specificity. In most diagnostic settings, the utility of these antibodies was unquestioned; reactivity for cytokeratin was dogmatically equated with epithelial differentiation. Recently, however, the diagnostic importance of these antibodies has been challenged, prompted by the demonstration of cytokeratin reactivity in a variety of "nonepithelial" neoplasms. In this review, the evolving literature on this topic is explored, and the practical implications of these findings are discussed. 
3	The distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb. To determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured. Four groups of patients were studied: 22 control subjects, 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis, 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis. In the testing posture (seated), patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side. Gravitational torques were included in the measurements. However, proximal muscles (acting at hip and knee) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles (acting at ankle and hallux). At any particular joint, physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects. As in the upper limb (Colebatch and Gandevia, 1989), the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects, although no muscle groups were especially affected. 
1	Role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy. Percutaneous fine-needle aspiration (PFNA) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy, but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined. To help establish guidelines, we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent PFNA biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy. Biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72% (135/188) of the patients, but in 27% (50/188) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis, and in 2% (3/188) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis. Fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention, thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis. In patients with a diagnosis from PFNA biopsy, operation confirmed malignancy in 97% (37/38) and a specific cell type in 79% (30/38). In patients without a diagnosis after biopsy, a malignancy was found in 73% (11/15) at the time of operation. This suggests a high rate of accuracy when PFNA biopsy provides a diagnosis. However, it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of PFNA biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies. This implies that PFNA biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates. 
5	Delayed brachial artery occlusion owing to a dog bite of the upper extremity. We report a case of delayed presentation of vascular injury from a superficial dog bite of the upper extremity in a five-year-old male. This example of a significant arterial injury, in the setting of seemingly minor trauma, is the first known report of blunt arterial trauma owing to a dog bite in any age group. Blunt arterial trauma in children is rare unless associated with fractures, dislocations, or massive crush injuries. Additionally, persistent pulses following arterial occlusion are rare and can potentially lead to misdiagnosis of a serious arterial injury. A brief review of pediatric blunt vascular injuries is presented with implications for diagnosis and management of such cases. 
5	Effect of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and membrane properties. 1. Amiodarone is a potent anti-arrhythmic drug with lipophilic properties. The intercalation of such a drug into the membrane of erythrocytes may alter their shape and have an impact on the flow properties of blood. We therefore studied the influence of amiodarone on erythrocyte shape and deformability in vitro and in vivo. 2. Incubation in vitro with increasing amiodarone concentrations led to a progressive stomatocytic shape transformation and a decreased deformability of the erythrocytes. 3. Amiodarone treatment in eight patients did not affect erythrocyte morphology and deformability. However, an increase in the membrane cholesterol/phospholipid ratio was found. 4. The stomatocytic shape transformation of erythrocytes in vitro indicates that amiodarone intercalates in the inner hemileaflet of the lipid bilayer leading to membrane internalization. These results shed light on the interaction of amiodarone with biomembranes. 
5	Comparison of frequency of late potentials in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ischemic cardiomyopathy with advanced congestive heart failure and their usefulness in predicting sudden death. Signal-averaged electrocardiograms were obtained in 62 consecutive patients with advanced congestive heart failure (CHF) undergoing evaluation for possible heart transplantation to determine if late potentials: (1) provide unique information compared to assessment of ventricular ectopic activity on ambulatory electrocardiogram, and (2) identify a subgroup of CHF patients with higher sudden death risk. Patients with a history of cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia were excluded. CHF was due to old myocardial infarction in 40 patients and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy in 22 patients. Late potentials were present in 16 of 40 (40%) patients with old infarction but in only 3 of 22 (14%) patients with nonischemic CHF (p = 0.03). Twenty-four-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were obtained in 34 patients (55%). Total ventricular ectopic activity and repetitive forms of ectopy were similar in patients with and without late potentials. Nine patients died suddenly, 9 had nonsudden death, 15 underwent heart transplantation and 29 were alive and well after a mean follow-up of 218 +/- 154 days. At 1 year, the actuarial risk of death was 37% and of sudden death was 20%. Sudden death risk was 12% in patients with late potentials versus 21% in those without (p = 0.73). Thus, the incidence of the arrhythmia substrate producing late potentials depends on the CHF etiology. The signal-averaged electrocardiogram and ambulatory electrocardiogram provide independent information for possible risk assessment in CHF. However, late potentials are poor predictors of sudden death risk when CHF is advanced, possibly due to the heterogeneity of causes of sudden death--ventricular tachycardia being only 1 of many possible mechanisms. 
5	Premature menopause because of an inherited deletion in the long arm of the X-chromosome. A family is described in which both a mother and an infertile daughter had premature menopause at the ages of 31 and 28 years, respectively. Initially, an extensive investigation revealed no apparent cause for their conditions. However, when cytogenetic analysis in the daughter was performed, a terminal deletion in the long arm of one of the X-chromosomes was found. The karyotype was: 46,Xdel(X),(q25-qter). Chromosomal investigation in the mother showed an identical deletion. The karyotype of the patient's 35-year-old sister is normal. She has a normal menstrual cycle and two normal children. The presence of such familial cases suggests that chromosomal investigation should be considered in young women with oligomenorrhea, especially those whose mothers have experienced a premature menopause. 
3	Shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis: a long-term follow-up study. Hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis. Case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus, who underwent shunt surgery between July, 1975, and June, 1986, were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results. Seven factors were studied in each case: 1) age at admission; 2) grade on admission (I to IV, classified by the authors; Grade I being the best and Grade IV being the worst); 3) duration of alteration of sensorium; 4) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell content at initial examination; 5) CSF protein levels at initial examination; 6) number of shunt revisions required; and 7) the necessity for bilateral shunts. During a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years (mean 45.6 months), the mortality rate was 20% for patients in Grade I; 34.7% for patients in Grade II; 51.9% for patients in Grade III; and 100% for patients in Grade IV. Only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome (p less than 0.001). Based on these results, the authors advocate early shunt surgery for Grade I and II patients. For patients in Grade III, surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection. All patients in Grade IV should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage, should have shunt surgery. 
5	Genetic diagnosis of Lynch syndrome II in an extended colorectal cancer-prone family. Knowledge of colon cancer genetics, with particular attention to precision in hereditary cancer syndrome diagnosis, can often enable highly targeted surveillance and management strategies for patients at high genetic risk. Unfortunately, the patient's family history of cancer is often given minimal attention, and knowledge of hereditary cancer syndromes is frequently limited. Indeed, many physicians still consider familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) as the only genetic risk factor for colorectal cancer. This concern with FAP was noted in a colorectal cancer-prone kindred which for decades had been thought to manifest that syndrome. However, after meticulous genetic, medical, and pathologic studies, the cardinal phenotypic characteristics of Lynch syndrome II were observed. The potential for cancer control in current and future generations of families like this one clearly mandates the need for computerized registries which could transmit current information about hereditary colon cancer syndrome diagnosis, surveillance, and management. 
4	Underestimation of treatment effect in crossover trials. In crossover trials each subject serves as his own control. For the study of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and angina pectoria, properly designed crossover studies are preferred to parallel studies. There is a considerable between-subject variability of symptoms in some of these conditions. Bias due to this is eliminated by the use of a crossover design. However, a problem is the so-called treatment-by-period interaction. The present study analyzes the potential influences of this on the outcome of the trial. Physical carryover effect, defined as a physical effect of the first treatment period carrying on into the second, tends to minimize differences between two consecutive treatment periods. So does the frustrating experience of an inactive agent in the first treatment period. Outside influences such as the change of the seasons may affect lengthy crossover trials in a similar way. The author concludes that the treatment effect in a crossover trial tends to be underestimated. The current concept that reports of clinical trials are generally biased toward an exaggeration of treatment effects does not seem to apply to crossover trials. 
3	AAEM case report #1: ulnar neuropathy at the elbow. A patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented. The electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments. The interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology. 
1	Intracranial tumor in infants: characteristics, management, and outcome of a contemporary series. Since 1980, 22 patients less than 2 years of age have been treated for intracranial tumors at our institution. The most common presentation was elevated intracranial pressure associated with ventriculomegaly (73%). The diagnosis was made by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and confirmed surgically in every case. In 68% of cases, the tumor involved midline structures in the central nervous system. Tumors were infratentorial in 29% of patients less than 1 year of age and in 60% of those more than 1 year of age. Most tumors were either primitive neuroectodermal tumors (41%, 7 of 9 located in midline posterior fossa structures) or astrocytomas (27%, 5 of 6 located in the hypothalamus, chiasm, or optic nerve). Twenty patients had gross or subtotal tumor resection. Surgical mortality and neurological morbidity were 10% and 5%, respectively. Of 5 patients who underwent a second operation for tumor recurrence, 3 demonstrated a change in the pathological features of the tumor from those of the original diagnosis. Of 10 surgical survivors with malignant tumors, 8 received chemotherapy and 5 radiation therapy. Radiation was not administered before 1 year of age. The overall 1-year survival was 70%, and 2-year survival was 58%. Two-year survival for benign and malignant tumors was not significantly different. We think that the interdisciplinary efforts directed toward the treatment of these tumors has improved survival and that all children should be offered entry to a research protocol and aggressive treatment. 
3	Aspiration in bilateral stroke patients. Seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations; 34 (48.6%) aspirated. Patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes, abnormal cough, abnormal gag, and dysphonia. However, patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough, an abnormal gag reflex, or both. The prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information (ie, presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs). 
3	Prognostic factors in the treatment of alopecia areata with diphenylcyclopropenone. One hundred thirty-nine patients with alopecia areata were treated with diphenylcyclopropenone. Before treatment, 85 patients had subtotal or total hair loss (greater than 90% bald area) and in the remaining patients scalp involvement was between 40% and 90%. The following three factors were found to be of prognostic significance: type of alopecia areata as documented before treatment, duration of the disease before therapy, and presence of nail changes. Other factors such as age at onset, sex, presence of atopic features, the extent of variation in the range of diphenylcyclopropenone concentrations during treatment, and sleep disturbances caused by pruritus did not influence the prognosis significantly. 
5	Characterization of a large deletion associated with a polymorphic block of repeated dinucleotides in the type III procollagen gene (COL3A1) of a patient with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV (EDS IV) is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by extreme fragility of skin, blood vessels, intestine, gravid uterus, and lungs. The phenotype is accounted for by mutations affecting the integrity and/or synthesis of the precursor procollagen molecules of type III collagen. In this article, we report the elucidation of the molecular defect in an EDS IV patient whose type III collagen was previously found to be structurally abnormal. We utilized PCR in a two-step process involving first the localization of the mutation in the mRNA and then the characterization of the defect in the gene. The results established the patient's heterozygosity for a genomic deletion of about 7.5 kb which eliminates 1,026 nucleotides of coding sequences in the message. The mutation arose as a result of an exon-to-intron recombination. The deleted segment extends from the 13th nucleotide of exon 9 to within a DNA sequence of intron 24, which is composed of a series of dinucleotide repeats. Using PCR, we tested the polymorphic nature of this DNA element on several unrelated individuals. Analysis of amplified genomic products of 45 chromosomes recognized at least four distinct allelic forms that display frequencies ranging from 5% to 61%. Mendelian segregation of three of the four alleles was established by the same method in a 3-generation family. 
5	Cheilitis granulomatosa: report of six cases and review of the literature. Six cases of cheilitis granulomatosa, a rare inflammatory disorder of unknown origin, are reported. The condition produces nontender, persistent swelling of one or both lips and affects primarily young adults. Histologically, nonnecrotizing granulomatous inflammation is seen. The clinical findings and results of therapy in these six cases are presented. One patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate (Plaquenil) that stabilized the process. One of our patients had vesicular-appearing lesions. Microscopic examination showed the lesions to be dilated superficial lymphatic channels, a finding that to our knowledge has not been previously described. 
3	Stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using a multimodal image analysis system. Technical note. A methodology has been developed for stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using an image-analysis system that simultaneously displays different structural and functional images of the brain. The validity and accuracy of this system were established with phantom studies. Surgical planning and electrode implantation are guided by stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging, digital subtraction angiography, and position emission tomography. This methodology provides the spatiotemporal relationship of cerebral structure and function necessary to identify seizure onset and propagation in human limbic system epilepsy. 
5	Does indomethacin alter the hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes? The purpose of this study was to determine whether indomethacin alters the maternal and fetal hemodynamic response to magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes. We studied seven chronically instrumented animals between 0.8 and 0.9 of timed gestation. The experimental sequence included: 1) at time 0, indomethacin, 2 mg/kg, or vehicle only intravenously (IV) over 5 minutes; 2) at 60 minutes, MgSO4 4 g IV over 5 minutes; 3) at 65 minutes, MgSO4 infusion at 4 g/hour; 4) at 150 minutes, maternal hemorrhage, 20 mL/kg, over 60 minutes; and 5) at 215 minutes, reinfusion of maternal blood over 60 minutes. Each animal was studied with and without indomethacin. Indomethacin, but not vehicle only, transiently increased maternal and fetal mean arterial pressure (MAP), decreased maternal and fetal heart rate, and decreased maternal cardiac output. Magnesium sulfate significantly decreased uterine vascular resistance and increased uterine blood flow both with and without indomethacin. Hemorrhage significantly decreased maternal MAP, heart rate, cardiac output, and uterine blood flow in both groups. The magnitude of each change was similar between the groups. For example, at the end of hemorrhage, maternal MAP was 36 +/- 7% below baseline (P = .0001) with indomethacin and 41 +/- 2% below baseline (P = .0001) in the vehicle-only group (P = not significant between groups). Hemorrhage significantly decreased fetal heart rate, pH, and PO2, and increased fetal MAP and PCO2 in both groups. We conclude that indomethacin did not alter the maternal or fetal hemodynamic response to MgSO4 infusion and hemorrhage in gravid ewes. 
1	Intracerebral solitary plasmacytoma. We report a rare occurrence of intraparenchymal plasmacytoma and review the literature. The clonal nature of the neoplasm is demonstrated by immunohistochemical and molecular techniques. The importance of the latter techniques in ruling out other pathological entities is stressed. 
3	Excitatory amino acids in the developing brain: ontogeny, plasticity, and excitotoxicity. Besides their role as neurotransmitters, excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in the developing brain are crucially involved in plasticity and excitotoxicity which are modified by their distinct ontogeny. Along with incomplete neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis, presynaptic markers of the EAA system are immature in the developing brain; however, postsynaptic EAA system activities, particularly of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors, are transiently enhanced early in life. This transient enhancement is presumably beneficial to the immature brain because physiologic activation of the EAA system plays a critical role in plasticity of early learning and morphogenesis. At the same time, this transient hypersensitivity renders the immature brain vulnerable to pathologic excitation of the EAA system (excitotoxicity) as observed during neonatal hypoxia-ischemia. 
4	Alarm reaction and serum K+ in hypertensive patients. The effect of serum K+ of the alarm reaction induced by the participation to an experimental noninvasive study was evaluated in 35 subjects with borderline hypertension and in 18 essential hypertensives. A group of 44 inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling served as a control. Serum K+, blood pressure and heart rate were measured before (casual) and after (baseline) 20 min of rest in the recumbent position. Baseline serum K+ values were significantly higher than casual values in patients participating to the experimental protocol while no change was observed in inpatients undergoing routine blood sampling. The increase in serum K+ induced by relaxation was significantly related to heart rate decrease (r = 0.73). After relaxation 75% of patients had an increase in serum K+ with a change greater than 10% in about 35% of patients. In a subgroup of patients who repeated the same test three times, the alarm reaction was still evident and not reproducible within each patient. These data suggest that when potassium levels are measured in outpatients undergoing diagnostic or experimental procedures falsely reduced levels can be found in a large proportion of subjects. 
5	Acute myocardial infarction and chest pain syndromes after cocaine use. Seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). AMI developed in 22 patients (31%) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients (13%). Coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed AMI from those who did not. The presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved AMI and in 19 of 48 of those who did not. Creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75% of the patients, including 65% of those who did not develop AMI, but creatine kinase-MB elevations were only observed in the AMI group. The route of cocaine administration did not predict AMI and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed. The length of time between drug use and onset of AMI pain was often quite prolonged (median interval, 18 vs 1 hour in the non-AMI group). Eight of the patients with AMI underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing. 
4	A rheolytic system for percutaneous coronary and peripheral plaque removal. A method for plaque dissolution has been identified that percutaneously delivers a pulsatile high-velocity stream of saline to the site of an atheromatous lesion within a coronary or peripheral artery. In vitro evaluation and in vivo canine and porcine testing were performed using this 'rheolytic' system to determine its feasibility in ablating calcified plaque and soft thrombotic tissue. A prototype rheolytic guidewire capable of providing 30,000 psi of internal pressure was designed to fit within the guidewire lumen of a standard percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty catheter. An additional over-the-wire rheolytic catheter was fabricated to follow a standard .014-inch guidewire. The rheolytic devices were tested in vitro with simulated atheromatous and thrombotic lesions to evaluate the size and quantity of the particulate effluent. The particulate was then sterilized, mixed with saline, and introduced percutaneously into the animal kidney and heart for evaluation. The in vitro studies demonstrated that the rheolytic catheter and guidewire were able to follow both a coronary and femoral arterial model and successfully ablate the simulated lesions. The particle size for osseous, muscular, and cartilagenous tissue ranged from 2 to 6 micrometers; for fresh human plaque the particles ranged from 2 to 15 micrometers. Injection of cartilagenous and plaque particles into the animal model caused very slight regions of necrosis but no clinical sequelae. Applications of the rheolytic devices to the animal femoral artery demonstrated that both devices could ablate and cross calified or soft thrombosed lesions without damage to the vessel wall; the rheolytic catheter provided a debulking of the plaque. 
4	Epidemiology of heart failure. Analysis of 34 years of follow-up of Framingham Study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence, incidence, secular trends, prognosis, and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample. Heart failure was found to be highly prevalent, affecting about 1% of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10% of persons in their 80s. The annual incidence also increased with age, from about 0.2% in persons 45 to 54 years, to 4.0% in men 85 to 94 years, with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age. Women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages. Male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease, which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure. Heart failure, once manifest, was highly lethal, with 37% of men and 33% of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis. The 6-year mortality rate was 82% for men and 67% for women, which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age. Sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28% of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14% in women with heart failure. Hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80% of all clinical events. Factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure. These include low vital capacity, sinus tachycardia, and ECG evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy. 
3	Ubiquitin immunoreactivity in kuru plaques in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Cerebellar kuru plaques in 2 cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease were studied immunohistochemically. Similar to cerebellar senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease, many kuru plaques contained ubiquitin-positive, tau-negative small granular elements, presumably representing dystrophic neurites. Our results suggest that similar mechanisms are involved in neuritic changes in cerebellar plaques in Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Alzheimer's diseases despite differences of amyloid proteins in the plaques. 
1	Prognostic value of c-myc proto-oncogene overexpression in early invasive carcinoma of the cervix. The prognostic effect of c-myc oncogene overexpression was assessed in a multivariate analysis of 93 patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix, stage Ib, IIa, and IIb proximal. The treatment was based on the association of brachytherapy-colpohysterectomy and lymphadenectomy. Analysis of c-myc gene expression was done using Northern and slot blot hybridization techniques. Overexpression of c-myc (ie, levels at least three times the mean observed in normal tissues) was present in 33% of the tumors. The proportion of carcinomas with c-myc overexpression significantly increased with the size of the primary tumor (P = .04). No relationship was found between c-myc overexpression and the other clinical and histologic parameters, including the nodal status. The relative risk of relapse (overall, pelvic failure, distant metastases) was analyzed in a Cox's proportional hazards model. Three factors were significantly related to the risk of overall relapse when the multivariate analysis was performed, namely, the tumor size, the nodal status, and c-myc expression. A combination of c-myc expression and the nodal status provided a very accurate indication of the risk of relapse. Indeed, patients with negative nodes had a 3-year disease-free survival rate of 93% (95% confidence interval [Cl], 79% to 98%) when c-myc was expressed at a normal level, whereas this rate was only 51% (95% Cl, 26% to 63%) when c-myc was overexpressed (log-rank test, P = .02). In addition, in the subgroup of patients with positive nodes, this rate was 44% (95% Cl, 25% to 77%) and 15% (95% Cl, 4% to 49%) when c-myc gene was expressed at normal level, or overexpressed, respectively. Finally, c-myc gene overexpression was, in the multivariate analysis, the first factor selected by the model regarding the risk of distant metastases. 
1	Intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. Autologous lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (rIL-2) were administered intraperitoneally (IP) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. Ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. All ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. Patients received IL-2 100,000 U/kg every 8 hours intravenously (IV) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. LAK cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in IL-2 for 7 days and were then administered IP daily for 5 days through a Tenckhoff catheter (Davol, Inc, Cranston, RI) together with IL-2 25,000 U/kg IP every 8 hours. All but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. Toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of IL-2. One patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. IP fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. Two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. We conclude that LAK cells and rIL-2 can be administered IP to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. Further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of IP fibrosis and with lower IP IL-2 doses is justified by these initial results. 
2	Carcinoma of the gallbladder. Gallbladder cancer remains difficult to diagnose preoperatively. However, recent work suggests that ultrasound may be effective. Gallbladder cancer remains highly lethal despite aggressive therapy. Extension of the disease beyond the mucosa predicts a poor chance of long-term survival. 
4	Microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale: a difficult antemortem diagnosis [published erratum appears in Mayo Clin Proc 1991 Apr;66(4):439] Microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose. The most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea, and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram. Another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities. In general, pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli, but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans. The diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology, a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography. Herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death. These cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis. 
5	Obstructed total anomalous pulmonary venous return. Toward neutralization of a major risk factor. Among 57 neonates undergoing repair of total anomalous pulmonary venous return with severe pulmonary venous obstruction from 1980 through 1989, date of oper
